Here is the direct transcription of your meeting with Ariel, following the standard format and accurately capturing the conversation from start to finish:
Kyle: All right, welcome. This is Kyle Jones, and I have with me—
Ariel: Ariel—
Kyle: —Jones, and... just gotta... save that for the Nicole holding session.
Ariel: I left my laptop. I'll be right back, 'cause I want to refer to...
Kyle: Sweet. We are going to look at a app that I'm vibe coding, that we're calling the gifted facilitator needs tracker. Or student needs tracker. [picks up typing] Needs tracker. And I want to ask questions.
Ariel: I may not need to refer to anything, but I'd rather have it.
Kyle: Yeah. All right. Put it right there. Boom. Okay, so, let's start with the overall concept and, like, paint me a picture of what you would like, some magical app to do for you.
Ariel: I would like some magical app to keep up with where I am in the process of all the children, and essentially give me a, "this is what you need to do this week."
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: I'd like it to let me know, "Hey, you haven't checked on this kid's paperwork in a while, and you're waiting for teachers to fill it out. You need to check on that. You're gonna run out of days."
Kyle: Okay, like, what's needed this week, based on multiple deadlines that are in different, different spots, and your cross map of all of those and to see where am I across all of these different lanes?
Ariel: Yes, because I have like 60 different lanes all at a given time. And there's the legal deadlines, but then I try to give myself at least a week's buffer with those legal deadlines.
Kyle: Gotcha, gotcha.
Ariel: So if something goes wrong, I'm not so terribly screwed.
Kyle: Gotcha, gotcha. Okay, and how are those, are those, those legal deadlines are pretty clear as far as like when you start a process that sets the motion? Because that's easily programmable as far as like, when we set this, when we set certain things in the app, it can go ahead and predict out the next few things.
Ariel: Yep, and I can tell you what each of those things are.
Kyle: Yeah.
Ariel: How many days they are.
Kyle: 10th grade?
Ariel: And I can tell you, and we can either add in my buffer window that I like to have, or we can just...
Kyle: Right, yeah, I kind of want it to know the actual date and then also be able to know that these extra dates are the buffer to where that way you're not confused between like, wait, is this actual just a buffer? Like I don't want you be thinking, "did it pad it, or pad it again?" You know what I mean? So if it could tell you, if it would know the actual date, along with the week buffer, or have it towards customizable to where you can choose. "I want... I want this to give me 7 days or 5 days," or different deadlines to have different buffer dates. You can do whatever. Um, yeah. Okay. Do you want to walk through some of those?
Ariel: Yeah.
Kyle: Deadlines?
Ariel: Uh, it's easier if I start with a process.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: So tell me which process you need me to go through, and I will start there. Either IEP, screen, reval—
Kyle: List out the processes, or which ones? So we got, are those? Yeah, so we have IEP is one of them. Breaking a reval is one of them.
Ariel: And conducting a reevaluation will lead into an IEP.
Kyle: Okay. Um, here we go. Screening.
Ariel: Yep.
Kyle: Yeah, I'm just writing all the, um, yeah, yeah. All right.
Ariel: There are seven main things that are paperwork parts of my job. Uh, let's start with screening.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: Okay. From the second I get a, like... um, I forget what the word is called, especially an R.
Kyle: Referral.
Ariel: Thank you. The second I get a referral and I send the first paperwork of referral source home. The moment I get that paperwork back from their parents... so I get a referral, and that referral can be from a parent, a teacher, a student, or from me. Uh, they could be stuff. Like, I can refer. When I get that referral, I, before I send anything home to parents, this is—I will then do what's called a quick survey. Which is where I go through their cume file.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: And in their cume file, I'm looking for the following things. I'm looking for, have they been tested before? Have they received ESL services? Have they... been... have they had any... issues? Oh. Have they had any issues such as, um, attendance, DCS? Have there been any things that could negatively impact their... their academic performance that I should take into account? So if they have low test scores, but they also have a DCS involvement, then I consider their test scores to be null and void.
Kyle: Okay. So those are things that I'm looking for. Got you. That gives you context to that low test score because something's not going great at home.
Ariel: Right. I'm looking for context. As much context as I get. Um... if they look like they could be a good candidate, then I will send paperwork home to the parent, parents. That paperwork to the parents, this 1st one starts my 60 days. Well, the day I get it back from the parents start 60 days.
Kyle: Okay. Okay.
Ariel: So, in that 60 days, and this is gonna be really weird, because there's two, like, starting points of 60 days.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: Um, so we get the paperwork back from the parents, and that paperwork is also going to include their permission for me to screen. And it's going to include parent screening data.
Kyle: Parent screening data?
Ariel: Yeah, so the parents will fill out three forms for me. And those forms are ranking forms, and they're gonna fill out all these things about their kid, these observations. I call, that is called the parent input. That form is only used in extreme circumstances of their kid just barely not qualifying. It has the least impact.
Kyle: So it's not always used.
Ariel: Nope. I always have to get it, but it's not always used.
Kyle: Is the permission to screen always provided?
Ariel: Yes. I cannot legally proceed without that. And if I don't get that back from the parents—
Kyle: The, that, meaning the screen.
Ariel: Yeah, if I don't get that permission to screen, I can't move forward.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: Oh, and what I should have said is once I get the referral and I'm going through the quick survey of the cume file, if I think they're gonna be a good fit before I send the paperwork home, I add them to my caseload. Which means that—
Kyle: During the survey.
Ariel: If I do that quick survey of all the stuff and I'm thinking they could be good, but before I send the paperwork home, I'm going to add them to my caseload. Because what I have discovered is some people are not uploading the screening data to the cume file. But when I add them to my caseload, then I can check to double check to make sure they haven't been tested recently. Because we can't retest students. They tested, then get in, we can't retest them. All right, so now I've got the paperwork back, right? I am officially... so what I'm gonna start with 1st is I'm gonna do, which is the quickest thing. I am gonna do the academic check-in. The screening process is a rubric of 3 parts, each part is worth 30 points. The academic portion is a 30 point portion. They have to score a minimum of 10 points in the section to move forward.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: Um, I will do that using T-VAAS or the Woodcock-Johnson. Just FYI, T-VAAS has two A's.
Kyle: T-VAAS. Okay.
Ariel: After the academic check-in, then we go to what's called the creativity or gifted characteristics. This is where things get sticky. We start with that massive amount of paperwork that you help digitize for me.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: That goes to a general education teacher. That general education teacher is supposed to return it to me within 2 weeks.
Kyle: We would like the app to provide reminders for this, possibly.
Ariel: Mm-hmm, because that is what I forget to check in on. Then, suddenly, a teacher hands it to me, and they've had it for like a month and I forgot to check in on it. This is where I get—this is where the gum works get gummed up.
Kyle: Yeah, easy. Easy to fall, congrats. In the cracks.
Ariel: In this paperwork, there's a thing called a TN TOL. T-E-N, or not T-E-N, just T-N T-O-C. Okay, the TN TOL, they have to get another 10 point—this is another 30 point portion. They need to get at least 10 points there. If they can't get the 10 points from the TN TOL, then I would move to the TN TOL Plus. Um... that's when I include the parent data. Okay, well, they don't get it there—
Kyle: By parent data, you mean...
Ariel: That parent, yeah, the input.
Kyle: On screening form?
Ariel: Mm. Okay, they don't get it there, then I go to what's called the TN Create.
Kyle: What do you mean if they, like if they didn't fill it out?
Ariel: No, if I still don't have 10 points. If I still don't have 10 points, then I have to move to another testing item. This test is the TN Create. They need... um, and they need to get, really, they need 42 points there to get 10 points on the rubric. And that's a very hard one to do. Um... if I believe this child could be gifted and they're just shy, I'm gonna skip every single one of those steps and I'm gonna go to the Torrance. Uh, it's T-O-R-R-E-N-C-E. Now, the Torrance is notoriously difficult because the 30-minute test that I have to give the students. And then I have to send it off to be graded. There are only two people in the whole county who can grade it.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: So, and then, so that will put me back a good week and a half if I send that off. Uh... delicious.
Kyle: Causes delays. Okay.
Ariel: So I try not to use the Torrance. I think last year, I only gave it once. I really do save it for those very shy children. Um, okay, so if after I've done both of those portions, those 1st 2 portions, um, the academic and the creative slash gifted characteristics. If the student has a minimum of 20 points between those two, then I can send them onto the next phase.
Kyle: Okay. Do you want to go with what happens if we proceed or if we don't proceed first?
Ariel: If not, just...
Kyle: Whichever?
Ariel: Okay, so if they're not proceeding, uh, baby only got 10 points or less. Then what's gonna happen is I'm going to fill out a screening results survey. Write a letter. That's not required, but I feel it's better to write a letter explaining that I love that their kid's great, but they just didn't qualify. And I explained to them what the qualifications of gifted are, which I've already done once, but I do it again. And then they get a prior written notice also, just referred to as a PWN. Um, the prior written notice will state that their child's needs are currently being met by the—by the general education curriculum. And that we do not need to move forward.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: And that's it. I remove them from my caseload. Oh, sorry.
Kyle: That's good, yeah.
Ariel: I remove them from my caseload, and I return all paperwork to their cume file. All right. If they did get 20 points, now I have to have what's called an informed consent phone call. These are very hard to schedule with parents. What I have started to do, which is technically not legal, but what I've started to do is I have started to email them everything in the informed consent, with the caveat of, "we like to have a phone call to make sure there are no questions. If you feel you need a phone call, let me know some good dates. If you don't, let me know that you are content to move forward."
Kyle: Gotcha, gotcha. Phone call.
Ariel: To clarify concerns. I've just found it's very hard to get them on the phone in the first place. Okay, the informed consent covers the following things. One, they have to understand their student must end up getting 50 points on that rubric.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: And a 123 IQ. Um, dave—the parent has no concerns, or when we move forward, I'm gonna send them what's called a permission to test letter. This letter...
Kyle: Is different from the permission to screen, or is it the same thing?
Ariel: Yes, this is a different letter. Isn't that confusing? This is—the permission to screen means that permission to interact with their child and look at their child. This permission to test means I have permission to send them to a psychiatrist. This is when they are going to take an IQ test. Parents have to send that paper back to me. The day I get that paper back—I like to try and get that paper back within a week.
Kyle: That's good enough, thank you for the deadline.
Ariel: As soon as that paper touches my hand, I have to sign it, date it, and give it to the school psychiatrist. And I have to do it that day. I scan it to her because she's often not in the building.
Kyle: She's out.
Ariel: That starts a new set of 60 days.
Kyle: A new set or restarts?
Ariel: It resets it to 60 days, essentially.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: Okay. So now, our school psych—I am out of the—I am on pause for a second. Oh, now I write a prior written notice stating that we are going to test their child.
Kyle: This is before... Oh, tell them that you sent it off, and they're like, okay, okay, great. Now we're gonna go, like, letting them know that this is gonna happen.
Ariel: Yes, so prior written notices are written after a decision has been made, but before the decision takes effect.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: So now that they've given me their permission to test, I can now write that saying, "we're gonna test your kid," and then I send that home um, in a pretty colored envelope. Oh, uh, I did forget something. In the sending the permission to test letter, I also need to send permission to email. Where they have to give me permission to email. Uh, email, uh, legal documents. I need to ask for their permission to email legal documents then.
Kyle: And within that same letter, or is it a separate letter?
Ariel: It's a separate letter. It's a letter that the county prints each year.
Kyle: I spell check. Fades away, won't let me... Oh, it worked.
Ariel: Um, okay, now that I got their prior written notice sent, I am now waiting for the school psychiatrist to test the child. She will typically test within 15 to 20 days. If it's after 20 days, I will check in with her.
Kyle: Are you waiting to schedule confirmation with them?
Ariel: Waiting results.
Kyle: Oh, you get? Oh, results. Okay, so you just need the results.
Ariel: So after 20 days, I'll do a check-in.
Kyle: So after 20 days, you'll do a check-in.
Ariel: Okay, once we have results, I will then have to schedule a meeting with the parents. Um, the meeting will... so I have to not only schedule with the parents, it has to be a parent in the meeting, a principal—
Kyle: Here you go.
Ariel: —a general education teacher, school psych, and me. So I have to check everybody's schedules and find that perfect date. I typically preemptively tell the parents, like, way back when I first emailed them, stating that whenever this meeting happens, it will typically happen at this time due to schedules. Like I pre-pick a date and time. And try to, like, I'm like, "it'll typically be a Monday at 10 AM," or something like that. Because the school psych's only available on Mondays and Thursdays.
Kyle: Gotcha, gotcha. That's a good idea.
Ariel: Um, and I always tell mine, we have to do it when she's available, and she's only available on Mondays and Thursdays. So, then once I have the date, we hold the meeting. And at that meeting, we will either say they qualified or did not qualify. If they didn't qualify, Katie Hugs does all the work. She writes the...
Kyle: Psych.
Ariel: Yeah, the psych. She ends up writing the um... the prior written notice and she finalizes the paperwork. So, and then nothing happens after that. Move on. If they did qualify, then I take over. And it goes to the IEP process. So that is the end of the screening.
Kyle: Done.
Ariel: It's just satisfying to tear these up.
Kyle: No, no, no.

PART 2
Here is the direct transcription of your conversation with Ariel for Part 2, referencing the file "IEP tracker part 2.m4a".
Kyle: All right. Couple clarifying questions for you. The 60-day deadline reset tracker logic. You mentioned there are two starting points for the 60-day deadlines. First when you get the initial screening paperwork back from parents, and the second when you get that signed permission to test back from IQ test. Does the second 60-day window completely override the first one, or do you have to track them both to ensure you don't violate the initial 60-day screening?
Ariel: It's a good question. The first 60 days for me, the second 60 days for the school psych. So they don't—it's a complete start over. It's essentially a passing of the baton.
Kyle: Um, in what cases would that first 60-day window persist?
Ariel: Um...
Kyle: Like when would we need—like do we always just—does that always just go away, or will that always just be like, "Oh wait, that one's still going"?
Ariel: It will be in effect if we have what we call like a—an emergency case. So... for instance, we had a kid who came from another school. If we have a kid who comes from out of state, or comes from somewhere like that where they were getting gifted services and we're having to redefine the gifted services, then we have to maintain within that original 60-day deadline. It's the difference between an initial screening and an out-of-state or out-of-county screening.
Kyle: Gotcha, gotcha. Okay.
Ariel: So if there was what we call prior belief, we have to live within the first 60 days. If we have initial, we get two 60-day windows.
Kyle: Um, hum. Is there something we need to change here, you want to just keep it like this?
Ariel: Keep it like that. That's something that we know, and that becomes a priority for... it's—the second we get a kid from another state, it—I skip a lot of this like referral, and I go straight to Katie Hugs. And she—and she determines whether or not we—how—where we start in the process. If she looks at the school data, she may say their IQ test is good enough for her.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: And so, I just have to do the... Woodcock-Johnson. I just have to have Tennessee academic data.
Kyle: Okay.
Ariel: Okay.
Kyle: Gotcha. Is there anything in the app you'd like it to like have like a flag if this is an out of state, or something to where it can differentiate between them?
Ariel: No, it's so rare. Okay, okay.
Kyle: Gotcha. All right. Customizing teacher reminder triggers. The app needs to send you reminders to check in on general education teachers who haven't returned the ten-talk or creative paperwork within their two-week window. Do you want these reminders to pop up exactly on day 14, or would you like the app to proactively nudge you a few days beforehand so you can prevent them from going overdue? Things like that.
Ariel: One, I'd like it to be two school weeks.
Kyle: Okay, yeah, yeah.
Ariel: So that can be 14 days, but I'd almost like it to be like... business—
Kyle: Two school—two school weeks. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ariel: Two business weeks, I don't know how you want to phrase it.
Kyle: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Where is the... that's done. The gifted characteristics, yeah. Return in two weeks.
Ariel: I'd like it on that two school weeks because some teachers just haven't handed it to me yet, and then I can be like, "Hey, I'm waiting on that paperwork, you want to just hand it to me, or..."
Kyle: Yeah.
Ariel: I don't know, or send something nice.
Kyle: Okay. Or like when you get—I'm assuming like we do like your daily digest of some kind, and so that day that you would be notified, that would be on your daily digest. Like, hey, check, follow up with this teacher because it's due in two weeks, right? Okay, that makes sense.
Ariel: Or it's due, it was due today.
Kyle: And on the due date. Okay.
Ariel: Because they—I know, like, when I hand it to them, it's due in two weeks. It's due two weeks from the day I hand it to them.
Kyle: Okay, so you don't want to know two weeks ahead of time.
Ariel: No.
Kyle: Okay. So, no, I'm sorry, you don't want a reminder two weeks ahead of time.
Ariel: No, I mean like on the day of, on the day it's due.
Kyle: Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ariel: Right, I was just saying not necessarily day 14.
Kyle: Yeah.
Ariel: Just two school weeks.
Kyle: Gotcha, that's what you're... in two weeks. Business days, not calendar days. Um, hum.
Ariel: Which could be the same, but sometimes it's not because of breaks.
Kyle: Two, two, school weeks. That's good. School days. Ah, since this is a calendar-based app, I do think we'll need to make sure we put in, in place to upload um, school calendar for breaks and teacher work—and breaks like holidays and teacher work days. Are not—so school days.
Ariel: There are, yeah, there are no more of those, actually.
Kyle: Teacher work days?
Ariel: Mm-hmm, those are all gone. That's how we're gonna get out before Memorial Day this year.
Kyle: And not, look, have some way to import that ideally.
Ariel: Well, I mean, there aren't as many. There's the professional development days at the beginning of the year.
Kyle): Yeah, yeah, yeah, right. Meaning, and the safety training day. To make sure that they are not—So that'll be important in counting days on, "Oh, this Thursday doesn't count." Like, okay, well that changes the whole point of the timelines.
Ariel: I also already have all of my dates for next year kind of picked out. Or like I have a file that lists when all my kids are due. So that I can make like—I can go ahead and upload all my students for next year. Except for my sixth graders. Right.
Ariel: Oh, sixth graders, that's a whole 'nother.
Kyle: All right. Um, number three question. Case rejection and clear down automation. If a student doesn't hit the required 20 points between academic and creative selections, and you drop a case, what should the app do with their file? Should it completely archive and hide the student from your main screen immediately, or keep them on a pending discontinuation list until you check that off, that you've mailed the letter and filed the paperwork into the physical cume file?
Ariel: Uh, pending discontinuation, then they should be removed after I have checked that off.
Kyle: Gotcha. Uh, separate words, if not proceeding. Okay. Tracking availability and meeting deadlines. Since school psychologist availability is limited to Mondays and Thursdays, and they usually test within 10 to—of 15 to 20 days, should the app dynamically calculate and propose potential meeting dates based on those constraints? Furthermore, how much lead time do you need from receiving the results to actually holding the team meeting?
Ariel: No, because I have too many things to look at for it to propose dates. But that is a good question. I have to give the parents 10 days notice for all meetings. 10 calendar days notice. Okay. I can schedule a meeting with parent permission without the 10-day notice, it's called waiving the right to 10 days.
Kyle: Okay. Number five, managing the multi-lane view, the 60 caseload lanes. You noted that you handle around 60 different lanes at once. When you look at the dashboard, would you prefer to see them grouped, would you like them categorized by the current phase such as in quick survey, waiting on teacher paperwork, waiting psych results, or strictly ordered by which legal slash buffer deadlines are expiring first?
Ariel: Oh, I want them by deadline.
Kyle: Let's trace out the... You want me to look at it? No, it's gone. Okay. Um, let's talk about this next. Digitally... here we go. Cool. All right, let's move on to the writing IEPs I assume?
Ariel: Uh, actually, reevaluations. Reevaluations, writing reevaluations. Okay.
Ariel: This will be short, but it leads into the IEP portion. Okay. For a reevaluation, I have to schedule this with the school psychologist. Psychiatrist? Oh, psychologist. I'm sorry, I've been saying psychiatrist and I totally meant psychologist. Psychologist. Okay.
Ariel: This is—so what a reevaluation is, is every three years we have to determine whether or not the student still requires special education intervention. Um, technically, this is supposed to be an independent meeting from the IEP. But because giftedness does not change, we often combine reevaluation and IEP at the same time. But what I have to do differently for this is I have to send their invitation, I try to send it at least 20 days out, because I also need paperwork from the parents, instead of the 10 days. Um, teachers, parents have to fill out—the legal deadline is 10 days. Ariel likes 20. Out from what? The date of the meeting. So, I'm saying I have to send the invitation to the meeting. Gotcha. Okay.
Ariel: Okay, um, the invitation to the meeting, is that you figuring out the schedule or is it saying this is the date? This is the date. So do you have to send out an email ahead of that to schedule the meetings, is that different? I actually don't ask for parent input on scheduling the meetings. Okay, okay, okay. So there's no big scheduling process for this one. No. Okay, gotcha. So scheduling the reeval, and then you send the invitation. Yep. I have too many parents for me to ask for parent input. All right, so I send the parents their paperwork. They have what's called a reevaluation survey. That survey must also be filled out by a general education teacher and myself. So the day I send that paperwork to her parent, to the kid's parent, parents, I'm also giving one copy to the general education teacher. And I have to give another one to myself. I, at least... okay, so 13 days before the meeting, okay, sometime in that week, I need to do what's called a direct observation. I need to—uh, yeah, of the student. I need to do at least one, but some students require more than one. Yeah. This is where I fill out a form on observing the student in the classroom and in social settings. I'm looking for how they act compared to their same-age peers. Um, I will then gather the direct observation and the reevaluation surveys and I will send them to the school psychiatrist—psychologist. Gosh, this is confusing because we really just call Katie Hugs the school psych. She needs those at least 10 days before the meeting. Okay. That's good to know. All right, that's it, that's the whole reevaluation process. You have conducted the reeval? Uh, Katie Hugs handles that. Okay. And then you just show up to the meeting and she runs it from there kind of thing, and then from that if it gets added to your caseload then it would move to the write IEP—IEP process, or the reeval just continues what they had before kind of thing? It continues what they had before. Okay, gotcha. The reevaluation is saying, "Yep, they still need services, let's keep going." We have almost never denied a reevaluation for a gifted kid, it doesn't work that way. Okay. Gotcha, gotcha. Just wanted to make sure everybody's on the same page, let's move, let's keep going. Okay, all right, cool cool. Just a very clunky formality. Clunky formality. The direct observations take the longest because I have to sit and I have to monitor the kid for 40, at least 35 to 40 minutes. All right. And so, and I can't do any other thing, I literally am typing notes the whole 30 to 40 minute time, just on that child. Would—are those notes something you want incorporated into this process, or just know that it has to be done? That direct observation is the notes, I take it during the observation process. So I fill it out when it says that direct observation, I fill that out while I'm doing it. Like on TN Pulse? Okay, okay, TN Pulse has a place where you put that in, okay, cool cool. And TN Pulse is the data for um... it's the IEP brain. Brain for database and stuff, okay. Um, hum. Okay. Write IEPs? Write IEPs. All right, so this next goal we're gonna talk about is writing IEPs, tell me all about it. Okay, um, and what you want the app to do specifically, but— So, all IEPs must be completed exactly one year from the last IEP's deadline. Or last IEP's like effectiveness date. So for example, if I wrote an IEP today on June 6, 2026, I must write the next IEP on June 5, 2027. It's an exact one year. Okay. We try to schedule IEPs at least—a—at least 10 days before they're out of date. County office would like us to do a 30-day buffer, that is unrealistic for me. Um, I typically schedule all of my IEPs in August. Okay. I send, so this to me this is the beginning is in August I will send every single parent a letter, which will include the permission to email, proposed dates for their child's IEP, and a survey. What kind of survey? The survey will be things like who do you expect to bring to the IEP meeting? What kind of meeting do you think you would prefer? What do you expect—who do you expect to attend, is that it? Yeah, who do you expect to attend. I need to know if they're bringing a lawyer or an advocate. But I can't ask them that. Yes. Not until the meeting. If they bring a lawyer I have to end the meeting and reschedule. Right, and so you're asking to hopefully preemptively avoid being like, "Oh, you brought a—" I phrase it as so that I can plan the best space for the attendees, how many people and who will be attending this meeting. Okay. And I give a—for example answer. Um, that has been pretty helpful to me, good. Um, also in the survey, I do think I ask which teacher they would like to attend the meeting, like subject-wise. If they're available. Yeah. Um, in the scheduling of the IEPs in August, I also try to send all the Gen Ed teachers their calendar invites for the whole year. Invites? Invitations to the meetings. So the Gen Ed teachers get a calendar invitation so that it—so they get a reminder that they have an IEP meeting. All right. Um, okay, now let's get to the actual out of August meeting time. First thing that we need to do is I need to send an invitation. This is the formal invitation, the previous date was just a formality. Or just a—nicety. That is legally required 10 days before the meeting. And this is 10 calendar days. That's good enough. I like to do 20. Okay. Okay, then I have to send paperwork to teachers, this is at times—this is at minimum what's known as a pre-vocational—pre-vocational checklist. Some students require extra, such as a social-emotional checklist, or other things like that. Okay. Um, I'd like to, a week after I send the invitation, I would then like to check in on the invitation with the student or the parent, I'd like to have that invitation back in a week. And do you like reach back out to them if you have— I will reach back out to them. Once I have the invitation, I need to upload the response into TN Campus. Not TN Campus, I'm sorry, um, TN Pulse. All right, um, then I need to start doing what's called data mining or data gathering. [giggles] Like... Okay, data gathering time. I need to go to T-VAAS um, to get all of their TCAP scores for the previous year and—oh, and get their most active TCAP scores and the previous year's TCAP scores. Okay. Then I need to check Mastery Connect for benchmark data. Then I need to check AIMSweb for reading fluency data. For the app's purposes, um, does this need to be like a checkbox as part of the step of like have you done the gathering—data gathering step yet? Is that important? Yeah, because I think that's what got me last year, I was trying to do that step on the same day I was trying to write the IEP, and it just drove me bonkers. Okay. Um, and then I need to check Savvas for math skill. S-A-V-A-S. V, as in violin. A-A-S. Okay. Um, no H, there you go. For math data. Okay. How—when would you like it to be like, "Hey, you need to check this data for this student"? How far out from what? Uh, 7 days from the meeting. Okay. Okay, next step is what's called—is a transition survey for the student, depending on their grade level, each grade level has a different one. Um, I need to do that around the same time data gathering, so maybe 6 days before the meeting. Okay. Then I need to actually write the IEP. That is a long process, that—that takes me a good 2 hours to do if I was just sitting there doing it. Um, hum. Um, but I need to finish the IEP 4 days before the meeting. Um, then I need to 48 hours before the meeting, and that's 48 business hours before the meeting, or calendar—or school whatever. So if the meeting's on a Monday, I have to send it out on a Friday. Two business days? Yes. Send IEP, is that what you're doing? Yep, I have to send the IEP to the parents. And as well as however they're—if they're meeting with a Zoom link I just have to send that as well. All right, um, then I need to have the IEP meeting. In the IEP meeting, it would be great if I could finalize the IEP in that meeting, I can sometimes, sometimes I cannot. Uh, worst-case scenario, I need to finalize it the next day. Legally, it must be finalized within 5 days after the meeting. Um, also in the meeting, I want to get signatures of everyone present. If they're virtual, I'd like virtual signatures. Okay. Okay, after the meeting, the next day, I need to finalize the IEP if I haven't already. And then I need to print the IEP at a glance. If I—and this uh, needs to be done that next day, yeah. Um, once I printed the IEP at a glance, I need to gather teachers who were not in attendance's signatures and deliver the IEP at a glance. This also takes forever. Gather signatures of the teachers who were not in attendance to give them the IEP at a glance? It's a signature to verify they were given the at a glance. That they were told of the new services. Here's—and here's the thing [coughing] that I'd almost like to do with that step, the IEP at a glance. It would be easier for me if I could do every IEP at a glance that I had for that week at one time. Like let's say every—I've kind of got Friday afternoons blocked off, I'd like to do them all on Friday afternoons. And where—what would the app magically do for you, be able to tell you what? Basically would just be like get these four kids' at a glance signatures, because then I could just, if it's—if that—if three of the four kids have the same teacher, I could hit that teacher once instead of coming to that teacher four times that week. Okay, um, could group any at a glances where the students share the same teachers? No, I don't need them—I don't need it to know they share the same teachers. No matter what, I want to do all at a glances on Friday. Because let's say, this—this happens to me, okay? So let's say I have four IEP meetings that week, okay? And that means four times that week I'm having to go all around the school to get signatures. Whereas instead, if I just did it at one time, I did all four at a glances on Friday, then maybe three of those teachers are in the same hallway and I'm not running around four different times, I'm just doing it once. Any students in that step. At once. But it still grouped by teachers, but right? Like, or do you just want to say student A, B, C's at a glance? Yeah, I'd rather just say student A, B, C at a glance, because then I'll sort it by location in the school. And I'll make myself a little track. Okay, we may have to come back to that because I didn't quite get it, I don't know if I'll be able to explain it very well. What—what are you thinking I'm saying? Like, I'm hearing you say, I need to go like distribute the mail basically, and then it's like, well, this could help you like... I also don't know how it knows who all is ready for the step. When—when were you working on the at a glance? We haven't—we talked—we wrote the IEP, but we didn't write the at a glance. This is automatically created once I finalize the IEP. Okay, okay, okay, so the system creates the at a glance mm-hmm for you to go get signed by the multiple teachers mm-hmm and if you have finalized multiple IEPs within a week. A week. So let's say I between Monday and Friday I've done several IEPs, then on Friday all those at a glances, I could go deliver those all on Fridays. Okay, so you don't need all of them signed the next day. No. Okay, that's where I was confused because it's like sounds like you got to do it the next day, so how are you going to group them all together unless you just did it yesterday? [giggles] So this is, you've done your IEPs, finalized IEPs, mm-hmm and within the next week, any IEPs you've had, wait and group those to Friday mm-hmm then bulk go around... Okay, that makes sense. Um, hum. So play and group up to be listed out as a Friday task, um, to... list this out. Students there, IEP at a glance. Yeah, because the IEP's like a 12-page document, the teachers don't need a 12-page document to read through, they get a one-pager. Um, after I get the signatures from that, within the week of getting that signature from the at a glances, I have to upload the signatures into Pulse and I need to upload a copy of the IEP at a glance into a shared um, shared folder, that—that OneDrive, no, but not OneDrive, the S1, SharePoint. Into a SharePoint folder. Okay. Then I need to do a check of the online uploads. I need to make sure I have the following, I need to make sure I have a signed invitation. Do I have the transition form uploaded? Do I have the signatures, and do I have the notes from the meeting that the LRE took, or that the LEA took? Are these mentioned elsewhere? Um, the invitation is, the transition form is, signatures are. The LEA is in charge of the notes, their job is to give them to me so I can upload them. Okay. That is when I check that the LEA gave me the notes. Okay. Then I have to do the physical file. So for the physical file, I need to move the old IEP into the old IEP spot, and then I need to place in the new IEP with signatures. Oh, I did skip a step. Um, before—after I finalize the IEP, I need to write a prior written notice, and I need to send the prior written notice and the final IEP to the parents. No, they don't get a free kitty. [giggles] Um, because in the physical file, the new IEP, I need to place behind it a copy of the signed invitation and a copy of the prior written notice in the physical file. As well as the transition form. That's automatically there because I created it in Pulse. It's in the physical file, I need to print a copy from the digital file and place it in the physical file. Talking about the prior written notice, correct? Yes. Okay. So, um, but I need that said because I forget that. In the physical file, after the IEP with the signatures, it needs to also have the prior written notice and the invitation. That should be everything. Very good. Okay. Do we have time for the write progress—? Oh, yeah, the rest of this is super easy in fact, and fast. That was the biggest one. Uh, progress reports happen at the end of each quarter. At that point, I am checking in on student goals and determining whether or not I think they're gonna meet their goal. Okay. These get written and then sent to parents, um, attached to their report card. Write a progress report for the report card? I write the progress report on their IEP goals, and I attach it to their report card. Okay. Any deadlines or things you need to know about— It needs to be written before the report cards are sent out. So they need to be finished at least 24 hours before report cards are sent. Sounds like you do all this at once, like this doesn't sound like something that's like peppered out like the others. No, that's not peppered out. This particular part is not. That is a—everyone's is due at the same time. When would you like to be reminded of this? A week before they're due. Yeah, okay. This is 100% of the thing I forget about. Until 30 day—30 minutes before it's due. [giggles] Check and remind for when they're due. All right, the rest are—oh, that was progress reports, what did I just fold? Nobody knows. Um, hum. Calendar. Oh, that's different, progress report. My progress report is different from the school calendar progress report. How will it know when the—uh, when the end of each quarter is? It needs to go with their report cards, not the progress reports. What occurs at the end of each quarter? A report card. Okay. [giggles] I know they have the same name and it makes no damn sense. IEP progress reports are only given to kids who have IEPs. But it's added to their— Report card. Which is due. At the end of the quarter. Okay. So, how does it know when the end of the quarter is? is what I'm trying to tell it. I understand, but I'm just saying when you say a progress report day should be listed on the school calendar, there is literally a day on there. Okay. Then you should just say you mean report card days. That's what I was trying to say, I just messed it up. Okay. Report card days, you mess it up. I—I understand that my communication was not clear, but the sigh, [giggles] did not help us either. Because it says progress report so I guess that's why I'm also confused because it does say progress report. It does, and that's what, yes. But you mean report card days, that's what, yes. So, it doesn't know that either. So, I need to say the progress report days listed on the school academic calendar so know the report card days. Read it all, tracking, okay, that's it. Basically, I just need to let it know like, I want it to be able to pick up November 26, November 6, be able to tell you a week prior to that to say, "Hey, they're due in a week." Right? Yeah, no, I understand that. I just—it was the—it was the sigh of communication that I didn't care for. So, I was confused. I know. Sorry I got snippy at being confused. Okay, not to be confused. Because, cool, all right, let's move on to the— Okay, all right, thank you.
